# possible_markers_in_myelodysplastic_syndromes
Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) are diseases that occur when blood-producing cells in the bone marrow are damaged; such damage can affect one or more types of blood cells. Common types of MDS are refractory anemia with ring sideroblasts and refractory anemia with excess blasts (MDS-RS and MDS-EB, respectively). This work analyzed the proteomics of the medullary plasma of 10 patients with MDS-RS and MDS-EB compared to healthy control people. Overexpressed proteins that may be potential candidates for biological markers for the evaluation, study, and diagnosis of these diseases have been identified. These samples were subjected to immunodepleting, concentrated, and digested for further analysis by mass spectrometry. The ratios between selected groups and healthy people were calculated. Seven overexpressed proteins in both syndromes were identified as potential biomarker candidates: vitronectin (VTN), fibrinogen (FGA), pregnancy zone protein (PZP), kininogen (KNG1), immunoglobulin lambda chain (IGLL1), complement factor C4b, and hemopexin (HPX). A modified affinity chromatographic column with lectin (FTL) was used for non-depleted samples. Immunoglobulin M (IgM) was expressed in the samples from both syndromes. Surprisingly, IgM from patients with syndromes was over retained on the frutalin (FTL) column when compared with the control group. We further hypothesized that over retention of this protein by the FTL is due to the presence of α-galactosidic residues in the IgM of MDS-RS and MDS-EB patients. Differential recognition of proteins on non-depleted samples from the use of FTL appears to be a powerful tool for proteomic analysis.
The information deposited here corresponds to the spectra obtained with mass spectrometry when samples derived from patients are evaluated. The objective is that any researcher has access and management of the information deposited. the experimental conditions are set forth below.
All samples were obtained by bone marrow aspiration after obtaining informed consent at diagnosis. All patients were diagnosed according to the guidelines [70] from WHO 2016 and to the Revised International Prognostic Scoring System (R-IPSS) [71]. A total of 30 marrow serum samples were obtained: 10 patients diagnosed with MDS with ring sideroblasts (MDS-RS), 10 patients with MDS with excess blasts (MDS-EB-1 and -2), and 10 as control group. The study was approved by the Ethics Committee of the NPDM Federal University of Ceará (CAAE 69366217.6.0000.5054). All samples were stored at –80 °C until used, and concentrations were determined using the Nanovue PlusTM instrument (GE Healthcare, Uppsala, Sweden).
The protocol of Lobo and collaborators was used with some modifications. Three groups were formed with the different samples: (1) Group 1 - Control (healthy marrow plasma donors), (2) Group 2 - Samples from people with MDS-RS, and (3) Group 3 - people with MDS-EB-1 and MDS-EB-2. Initially, all samples were centrifuged at 3000 x g after thawing, the resulting supernatant was then saved, individual samples were frozen at –30 °C, and the pellet was discarded. Subsequently, pools were grouped, ensuring that the protein chastity contribution of each sample was the same (10.6 mg) for each of the pools, resulting in a pool of 1.6 mL (6.625 mg/mL). These pools were used to perform all assessments and ensured the same amount of protein for each procedure. Each sample containing 50 μg of protein, which was denatured with 0.2% RapiGestTM SF (Waters, Milford, USA), reduced (10 mM dithiothreitol), alkylated (10 mM iodoacetamide), and enzymatically digested with trypsin (Promega, Madison, WI, USA). At the end of this process, the samples were centrifuged, and the supernatant was transferred to a vial to which 5 μL of internal standard, alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH, 50 fmol, access code P00330 on SwissProt) and 85 μL of 3% acetonitrile with acid were added in 0.1% formic acid. The final concentrations of glycoproteins and ADH were estimated at 250 ng/μL and 25 fmol/μL, respectively, and the final volume in the microtube was 200 μL. Quantitative and qualitative experiments using nano ultrapure liquid chromatography (nanoUPLC) and tandem nano electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (ESI/MSE) of the digested samples were performed using reverse phase chromatography of peptides with 3% to 40% (v/v) of acetonitrile containing 0.1% formic acid for 90 min. A flow rate of 600 nL /min was maintained for 100 min on a nanoACQUITY UPLC core system. A 1.7 μm, 100 μm × 10 cm nanoACQUITY C18 UPLC BEH reverse phase column was used in conjunction with the SCX 5 μm, 180 μm x 23 mm precolumn.
The protocol of Lobo and collaborators was used. Human serum albumin (HSA) and Immunoglobulin G (IgG) were removed from marrow plasma by affinity chromatography performed on a HiTrap Albumin IgG depletion™ column (GE Healthcare) coupled to the ÄKTApurifier 10 automated fast protein liquid chromatography (FPLC) system (GE Healthcare). Initially, marrow serum plasma samples were filtered on a 0.22 μM membrane (Vertipure™ PVDF syringe filters, Veritical) after which the samples were manually and individually injected into the FPLC system. The matrix was subjected to a constant flow of 1 mL/min of 5 mL of buffer A (20mM Tris-HCl pH 7.4 in 0.15 M NaCl) until the injection of 150 μL of sample when the matrix was washed with 8 mL of buffer A followed by 7 mL of buffer B (0.1 M GlycineHCl pH 2.6 in 0.15 M NaCl) under the same conditions with protein elution measured at absorbances of 280 and 220 nm. 
The fractions were digested (50 ug) and tryptic peptides were separated using a nanoACQUITY UPLC system (Waters) equipped with an HSS T3 C18 reverse-phase
column (1.8 μm, 75 μm × 20 mm) for 110 min using a 0%–40% gradient for 90 min and 40%–85% gradient for 5 min after which the column was re-equilibrated for 15 min at 35 °C. The flow rate was 0.35 μl/min, and mobile phases A and B contained 0.1% formic acid in water and 0.1% formic acid in acetonitrile, respectively.
A data-independent analysis (MSE) of tryptic peptides was performed using a Synapt HDMS mass spectrometer (nanoESI-Qq-oaTOF; Waters, Manchester, UK). All measurements on the mass spectrometer were done in the “V” mode with a resolving power of at least 12,000 times. All analyses were performed using nanoESI (+). The
collection channel of the analyzed sample was closed every 30 sec for the passage of the reference ion (Glu–Fib (Glu1) derived from fibrinopeptide B human ([M + 2H]2+ = 785.2486). The exact mass retention times of nanoLC-MSE data were collected using alternative lower (3 eV) and elevated collision ramp energies (12–40 eV) applied to the argon collision cell with argon gas using a scan time of 1.5 s with a 0.2-s interscan delay for each MS scan from m/z 50 to 2,000. The radio frequency RF offset (MS profiles) was adjusted such that the LC/MS data were effectively acquired from m/z 300 to 2,000, which ensured that any mass observed in the LC/MSE data < m/z 300 arose from dissociations in the collision cell. 
LC/MSE data were processed, and proteins were identified using ProteinLynxGlobalServer v.2.4 software (PLGS) with the UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot 57.1 and
UniProtKB/TrEMBL 40.1 Homo sapiens annotated database. The selected databases were randomized during database queries and appended to the original database to assess the false-positive identification rates. The identified proteins were organized by Protein Lynx Global Server (PLGs) into a list that corresponded to a single protein for both conditions (study or control group) and a logarithmic ratio between the different groups was plotted on a scatter plot to visualize differences between the groups. Proteins only in points of presence and confidence greater than 99% (3x3 assays) were considered for accepting searches in the database, and when the same protein was identified for different MS/MS ion fragmentations, those that presented the highest scores were considered for comparisons and data presentation.
For searching spectra and the database, we used the default parameters of PLGS followed by a maximum of one missed trypsin-cleavage and fixed carbamidomethyl and
variable oxidation modifications. The absolute quantification of each run was calculated according to the three most intense peptides (label-free Hi3 method) using ADH peptides as internal standards [73]. The average quantitative values of all samples were calculated, and the p value (p < 0.05) calculated using ExpressionE software to refer to the differences between biological replicates.
To visualize the spectra, you just need to use the proteowizard program that you can download at the following link: https://proteowizard.sourceforge.io/
